EC2(Elastic Compute Cloud)

EC2, short for Elastic Compute Cloud, is a service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that provides scalable computing capacity in the cloud. 
With EC2, you can launch virtual machines, known as instances, with a variety of operating systems, including Windows, Linux, and more.
Each instance is a virtual server that can be configured to suit your specific needs, with options for CPU, memory, storage, and networking. 
EC2 is a popular choice for deploying web applications, running batch processing jobs, and hosting relational databases, making it a versatile and powerful tool for cloud computing.

 It allows you to launch and manage virtual servers, known as EC2 instances, with a variety of operating systems, CPU, memory, and storage configurations. 
 EC2 offers secure, resizable compute capacity with the broadest choice of processor, storage, networking, OS, and purchase model, enabling you to configure capacity with minimal friction.

It also allows the user to configure their instances as per their requirements i.e. allocate the RAM, ROM, and storage according to the need of the current task. 
Even the user can dismantle the virtual device once its task is completed and it is no more required. 
For providing, all these scalable resources AWS charges some bill amount at the end of every month, the bill amount is entirely dependent on your usage. 
EC2 allows you to rent virtual computers. The provision of servers on AWS Cloud is one of the easiest ways in EC2.
EC2 has resizable capacity. EC2 offers security, reliability, high performance, and cost-effective infrastructure so as to meet the demanding business needs.

Pricing of AWS EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) Instance
The pricing of AWS EC2-instance is mainly going to depend upon the type of instance you are going to choose. The following are the pricing charges on some of the EC2-Instances.

1.On-Demand Instances: The On-Demand instance is like a pay-as-you-go model where you have to pay only for the time you are going to use if the instance is stopped then the billing for that instance will be stopped when it was in the running state then you are going to be charged.
The billing will be done based on the time EC2-Instance is running.
2.Reserved Instances: Reversed Instance is like you are going to give the commitment to the AWS by buying the instance for one year or more than one year by the requirement to your organization.
Because you are giving one year of Commitment to the AWS they will discount the price on that instance.
3.Spot Instances: You have to bid the instances and who will win the bid they are going to get the instance for use but you can’t save the data which is used in this type of instance.


AWS EC2 Instance Types
Different Amazon EC2 instance types are designed for certain activities. Consider the unique requirements of your workloads and applications when choosing an instance type. This might include needs for computing, memory, or storage.

The AWS EC2 Instance types are as follow:

General Purpose Instances
Compute Optimized Instances
Memory-Optimized Instances
Storage Optimized Instances
Accelerated Computing Instances

1. General Purpose Instances
It provides the balanced resources for a wide range of workloads.
It is suitable for web servers, development environments, and small databases.
Examples: T3, M5 instances.

2. Compute Optimized Instances
It provides high-performance processors for compute-intensive applications.
It will be Ideal for high-performance web servers, scientific modeling, and batch processing.
Examples: C5, C6g instances.

3. Memory-Optimized Instances
High memory-to-CPU ratios for large data sets.
Perfect for in-memory databases, real-time big data analytics, and high-performance computing (HPC).
Examples: R5, X1e instances.

4. Storage Optimized Instances
It provides optimized resource of instance for high, sequential read and write access to large data sets.
Best for data warehousing, Hadoop, and distributed file systems.
Examples: I3, D2 instances.

5. Accelerated Computing Instances
It facilitates with providing hardware accelerators or co-processors for graphics processing and parallel computations.
It is ideal for machine learning, gaming, and 3D rendering.
ex:P3,G4 instances





To install and launch an EC2 instance in AWS, follow these steps:


In the EC2 Dashboard, click on the Launch Instance button.
Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI):

Select an AMI from the list. Amazon Linux 2 AMI is commonly used for general purposes.
Click the Select button next to the desired AMI.


Choose an Instance Type:

Select an instance type based on your requirements. The t2.micro instance type is eligible for the free tier.
Click the Next: Configure Instance Details button.
Configure Instance Details:

Network setings and set vpc
then set Firwall security groups(create security group)
then Alow RDP traffic form it wil conect your instance
then set source type and storage for windows 30 gib gp2


Configure your instance settings. For most users, the default settings are sufficient.
Click the Next: Add Storage button.
Add Storage:

Configure the storage for your instance. By default, 8 GB of General Purpose SSD (gp2) storage is allocated.
Adjust the storage size if necessary, then click Next: Add Tags.
Add Tags:

Add any tags to your instance for easier identification. Tags are key-value pairs.
Click the Next: Configure Security Group button.
Configure Security Group:

Create a new security group or select an existing one.
Add rules to allow specific traffic to your instance (e.g., SSH for Linux instances on port 22).
Click the Review and Launch button.
Review and Launch:

Review your instance configuration.
Click the Launch button.
Select a Key Pair:

Select an existing key pair or create a new one.
If creating a new key pair, download the .pem file and store it securely. You will need this file to connect to your instance.
Confirm by checking the acknowledgment box and click Launch Instances.
View Launch Status:

Click the View Instances button to go to the Instances Dashboard.
Your instance will be in a pending state initially. Once it is running, the state will change to running.
Connect to Your EC2 Instance
Locate the Public IP Address:

In the EC2 Dashboard, select your running instance.
Note the public IP address or the public DNS name of your instance.
Connect via SSH (Linux/Mac) or PuTTY (Windows):

For Linux/Mac:

Open a terminal window.
Navigate to the directory where your .pem file is located.
Run the following SSH command:
sh
Copy code
ssh -i "your-key-pair.pem" ec2-user@your-instance-public-ip
Replace "your-key-pair.pem" with the path to your key pair file and your-instance-public-ip with the instance's public IP address.
For Windows (using PuTTY):

Download and install PuTTY.
Use PuTTYgen to convert the .pem file to a .ppk file.
Open PuTTY and enter the public IP address of your instance in the Host Name field.
Under Connection -> SSH -> Auth, browse and select the .ppk file.
Click Open to connect to your instance.
Log in as ec2-user.
