ls -  list directories and files 
List all entries, including hidden files (those starting with a dot)
         ls -a
 print sizes in human-readable format (e.g., KB, MB).
          ls -lh
Use a long listing format, showing detailed information about each file or directory.
          ls -l
The ls -lrt command is a combination of options used with ls to list files and directories in a specific format:

-l: Long listing format, which provides detailed information about each file or directory, including permissions, number of links, owner, group, size, and modification date.

-r: Reverse the order of the sort, so that the output is displayed in reverse order.

-t: Sort by modification time, with the most recently modified files appearing first.
                ls -lrt

pwd - display present working directory command in Linux

cd - Linux command to change to directories

mkdir - Command used to create directories in linux

rm-To remove files or directories
      rm file.txt
      rmdir directory name
      rm -r dirname --->delete dir and its files or subdirs

cp- copy our files to another folders

mv-move or rename to our files

touch -it will create new file

ln-used to combine two files

clear-clear the display

cat -display the file content,it will append the data 
 cat >> sai.txt then we can add data to existing file then we should use ctrl+D to save and exit file

echo-print the text

less-used to view (but not modify) the contents of a file or output from another command.

man-this command gives detailed documentation about all the commands in linux

uname:displays basic info about os
whoami-display current username(directory)
tar- It bundles multiple files into a single file without compressing them by default.
tar -cvf archive.tar file1 file2 saidir/
-c: Create a new archive.
-v: Verbose mode; list files processed.
-f: Specify the archive file name.

tar -xvf archive.tar --extract files from archive,The extract operation refers to the process of unpacking or decompressing files from an archive. 
zip-
in Linux is used to create and manage ZIP archives. 
ZIP archives are widely used for compressing and bundling multiple files and directories into a single file. 
so we can easy to store, share, and transfer groups of files.

zip archive.zip file1

grep-search for a string irrespective of case sensitive
     grep -i sai sai.txt
    -i --ignore case sensive 

head -returns specified number of lines from the top 
       head -n 20 file.txt

tail-returns specified number of lines from the below
      tail -n 20 file.txt

The diff command in Unix/Linux is used to compare the contents of two files line by line. 
It outputs the differences between the files, which can help identify changes, additions, or deletions. 
The diff command is commonly used in software development, configuration management, and text processing.
           diff -u file1.txt file2.txt

The cmp command in Unix/Linux is used to compare two files byte by byte. 
It is typically used to determine whether two files are identical. 
Unlike the diff command, which focuses on line-by-line textual differences, cmp is lower-level and reports differences starting from the first mismatched byte.
         cmp [options] file1 file2

The comm command in Unix/Linux is used to compare two sorted files line by line.
It outputs three columns of information, representing lines unique to each file and lines common to both files.
This command is useful when working with sorted lists and needing to find differences or similarities between them.
           comm [options] file1 file2

The sort command in Unix/Linux is used to sort lines of text files or input data.
It arranges the lines in a specified order, typically alphabetically or numerically,
and can handle various sorting requirements based on the options provided.
            sort -n num.txt ----> asc order to numbers
            sort -r file.txt ----> reverse the order

The export command in Unix/Linux is used to set environment variables or make shell variables available to subprocesses.
When a variable is "exported," it becomes part of the environment for child processes spawned from the shell,
making it accessible to any program or script that runs in that shell session.
         export my_var="sai"
         echo $my_var -->we can see output here

The unzip command in Unix/Linux is used to extract the contents of a ZIP archive. 
ZIP files are a popular format for compressing and packaging files, and the unzip command allows you to access the files inside.
         unzip archive.zip

The ssh command in Unix/Linux is used to securely connect to a remote system or server over a network using the Secure Shell (SSH) protocol. 
It allows you to log into another machine, execute commands remotely, transfer files, and even create secure tunnels for other types of network traffic.
       ssh username@192.168.1.10
To connect to a remote server with the username username at the IP address 192.168.1.10:

The service command in Unix/Linux is used to manage services (also known as daemons) on the system.
It provides a way to start, stop, restart, and check the status of services. 
The service command is commonly used on older init-based systems like SysVinit, 
but it's also supported on systems using the newer systemd init system for compatibility.

     service serviceName action

On newer systems that use systemd, the service command is often replaced by systemctl.
While service can still be used for compatibility, systemctl is more powerful and provides more detailed control over services.

    sudo systemctl start nginx

journalctl ----> used to view logs
       journalctl --since "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS" --until "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS"
dig ---> used to get DNS server info
     dig www.google.com

nslookup --->used to get DNS servor info in short form
     nslookup www.google.com

curl ---> used to download the files from server,curl is used in secure websites

wget ---> is used in all websites

The sed (stream editor) command in Linux is a versatile tool used for parsing and transforming text in a file or input stream. 
It allows you to perform a wide range of text manipulation tasks, such as finding and replacing text, deleting lines, and inserting or appending text
              sed s/oldtext/newtext filename
              sed '3d' filename ---> delete 3rd line in the file

chown ---> It is used to change file/directory ownership
           sudo chown newowner oldfile
            sudo chown root sai.txt

df --->disk free

du ---> disk usage

traceroute/ping -----> It is a network troubleshooting /This is useful for diagnosing network issues, checking connectivity, and understanding the route data takes across the network

The mount command in Linux is used to attach a filesystem to a specified directory,
making the filesystem accessible within the directory tree. 
It’s commonly used to mount storage devices, network filesystems, and other types of filesystems. 
           mount filepath attach dir
           mount /root/sourcedir/file /root 


