terraform init

Initializes a Terraform working directory.
Downloads provider plugins and sets up the backend configuration.
Run this command first when starting a project.

terraform init
terraform validate

Validates the configuration files for syntax and structural correctness.
Does not interact with infrastructure or state.

terraform validate
terraform plan

Creates an execution plan, showing the changes Terraform will make to your infrastructure.
A safe "dry-run" to review before applying changes.

terraform plan
terraform apply

Applies the changes required to reach the desired state of your configuration.
Prompts for confirmation unless a saved plan file is provided.

terraform apply
terraform destroy

Destroys all resources defined in the configuration.
Useful for cleaning up after testing or decommissioning infrastructure.

terraform destroy
terraform show

Displays details of the current state or a saved execution plan.

terraform show
terraform output

Extracts and displays values from the output section of your configuration.

terraform output
terraform fmt

Formats Terraform configuration files to follow the standardized style.

terraform fmt
terraform state

Manages the Terraform state file, enabling actions like moving, removing, or importing resources.
Example:


terraform state list   # Lists all resources in the state
terraform state mv     # Moves resources within the state
terraform import

Brings an existing resource into Terraform management by adding it to the state file.

terraform import <resource_name> <real_world_identifier>
terraform refresh

Updates the state file to match the real-world infrastructure without modifying resources.

terraform refresh
terraform workspace

Manages workspaces (isolated state files) for managing multiple environments like dev, test, prod.

terraform workspace list   # List workspaces
terraform workspace new    # Create a new workspace
terraform taint (Deprecated, use terraform apply -replace instead)
Marks a resource for recreation during the next terraform apply.
terraform untaint

Removes the taint marking from a resource, so it won’t be recreated.

terraform untaint <resource_name>
terraform graph

Generates a visual graph of the Terraform resources and their dependencies.
bash
Copy code
terraform graph | dot -Tsvg > graph.svg
terraform login

Authenticates with Terraform Cloud or a private Terraform Enterprise instance.

terraform login
Initialization & Setup: terraform init
Validation: terraform validate
Preview Changes: terraform plan
Apply Changes: terraform apply
Destroy Resources: terraform destroy
Manage State: terraform state
Import Resources: terraform import
Output Management: terraform output
Formatting: terraform fmt
